# JSON Parser using PLY (Python Lex-Yacc)

Python program for checking the validity of a JSON file's syntax using [PLY (Python Lex-Yacc)](http://www.dabeaz.com/ply/ply.html).

## Structure

The program is structured in three python files:

* lexer.py contains the lexer configuration: tokens names, regular expression rules as well as an error handler. It is formatted as required by [PLY](http://www.dabeaz.com/ply/ply.html). It describes the way the input string will be converted into a token stream.
* parse.py contains the BNF grammar rules that describe how the tokens generated by the lexer will be assembled. The rules are declared in the doctrings of the p_functions. It also contains a syntax error handler, p_error().
* app.py is the user interface for executing the program. First, it imports ply module as well as lexer.py and parser.py. It then builds the lexer–`lex.lex()`–and the parser–`yacc.yacc()`. Then, it uses the sys module to retrieve the target file’s path that is given as an argument and converts its content into a string–`open(file).read()`. Finally, it runs the parser with this input. If no error is raised during execution, a message saying that parsing succeeded is printed. Otherwise, it gives information about the type of error that occurred (*LexerError* or *ParserError*) and where it occurred.

## Getting started

### Prerequisites 

**PLY module**

Check that you have it by running:

```
$ pip freeze | grep ply
```

You should get something like:

```
ply==3.11
```

Otherwise, download it by running the following command:

```
$ pip install ply
```

**Python (2 or 3)**

Check that you have it by running:

```
$ python -V
```

You should get something like:

```
Python 3.7.0
```

### Executing the program

From your terminal, run:

```
$ python app.py relative_path_to_file.test
```

Please note that the path to the target file has to be **relative** and not **absolute**.

If the syntax is correct, you will get:

```
Parsing Succeeded: JSON Syntax OK
```

Else, depending on the error type, you will either get a *LexerError* or a *ParserError* along with an indication on where the error occured.
